Questions,Answers
What is Lydia IUD?,The Lydia IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for 5 to 10 years.
What are implants?,Implants are flexible rods (which contains hormones) inserted under the skin of the upper arm of a woman to prevent pregnancy for up to three years. They can be removed and replaced at any time you desire. 
What are the side effects of Lydia IUD?,The common side effects are cramps, abdominal discomfort, heavier or longer periods, and spotting between periods. It is important to note that these side effects diminish after a few weeks.
Will I menstrate every month if I use implants,Your menstrual period may change significantly while using the implants. The menstrual cycle usually remains irregular, but this is not uncommon. 
How can i prevent pregnancy for three years?,To prevent pregnancy for three years, we have implants and IUDs. Implants are flexible contraceptive rods placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained professional. The Lydia IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for 5 to 10 years. It is reversible and can be removed and replaced at any time.
What do you mean by hormonal or non-hormonal contraceptive?,Hormonal contraceptive contains hormones such as progestin and estrogen, while non-hormonal does not contain any hormone.                                                                                                               Hormonal birth control lessens the chance of pregnancy by reducing or preventing ovulation. It also thickens cervical mucus to block sperm from reaching the egg and thins your uterine lining to prevent a fertilized egg from attaching.

Nonhormonal contraceptive prevents viable sperm from reaching an egg. Either through a barrier (condom) or by making it unsuitable for the sperm to survive (Lydia IUD)
what are the side effcts of implant,The common side effects of the implants include slight headaches or nauseous feeling, spotting, weight gain or loss. There can also be delayed or early menstruation.
Is Injectables received in the hand or buttocks,The birth control injection is usually given into your buttock or upper arm (intramuscular).
Is there any family planning method for men.,Yes, there are family planning methods for men, including Condoms and Vasectomy (which is a permanent method).
 I want to prevent pregnancies for 5 years,Specifically for five years, there is the Lydia IUD. The Lydia IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for five to ten years, and it is reversible.
Which one is IUD? Is it the one they insert in the womb?,Yes, IUD is a T or Y-shaped intrauterine device inserted in the womb for pregnancy prevention for five to ten years, and it is reversible.  
I'm scared of the Postpill what other one can i use?,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive used after unprotected or unplanned sex. There are other options of contraceptives you can use based on the duration of pregnancy prevention.
Can you explain more about the injections and implants?,Implants are flexible contraceptive rods placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained professional in order to prevent pregnancy for three years. 
The birth control injection is a 3-monthly injection given into your buttock or upper arm muscle. 
I don't want my wife to give birth again. What can i do?,There are several family planning methods that can be adopted. Please call 7790 for free.
I have four kids already, so I want to go for family planning,There are several family planning methods that can be adopted. Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short-term methods and long-acting reversible methods. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
Can I remove and replace implants immeditely?,Yes, Implants can be removed and replaced at any time you desire.
I have a baby and  want to prevent pregnancy for like 5 years,The Lydia IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for five to ten years., and it is reversible. 

It is advisable that the baby should be 6 weeks before going for any family planning method.
I took postinor, but i am see 2 lines on my pregnancy test strip.,I would advise you to go to the hospital to do a blood test to be sure if you are pregnant or not.
What are the experiences after isertion of IUD?,You are likely to experience any of the following which include cramps, abdominal discomfort, heavier or longer periods, and spotting in-between periods. It is important to note that these side effects diminish after a few weeks.
 is it true that IUD leads to cancer, No, the IUD does not lead to cancer. Please note that all our contraceptives are safe and effective for all women of reproductive age.
I have been menstaruating for 3 weeks now.  What can I do?,If you experience menstruation for longer than expected, please contact a health provider. 
I will like a year method of family planning,You can use the 3-monthly injectable. It is an injection taken once and it helps to prevent pregnancy for 3 months.  
There are daily contraceptive pills which can also be taken daily.
what I can take for pregnancy prevention.,There are several family planning method.  Family planning contraceptive is based on choice and duration, there are short term methods and  long-active reversible method. Dail 7790 for free for more information.
 I will like to prevent pregnancies for 6 months,You can use the injectable method. It is an injection being taken once every 3 months to prevent pregnancy. 
Daily pills are another contraceptive method taken every day for pregnancy prevention.
I want to confirm actual usage of Postpill for my girlfriend,Postpill is a one-dose drug to be taken before or immediately after sex. The postpill should be taken within the period of 24 to 72 hours. It should not be taken more than thrice a month. We advise that you switch to a long-acting contraceptive method that suits your lifestyle (e.g. daily pills, injectables, implants, IUD).
Can I take Postpill more than 3 times in a month,The limit is 3 times a month. Once it's beyond three times a month, it's not advisable to use postpill. We advise that you switch to a long-acting contraceptive method that suits your lifestyle (e.g. daily pills, injectables, implants, IUD).
Is it possible to get pregnant after taking postpill during ovulation.,Yes, it is possible. If you know that you're ovulating, it's advisable that you take postpill before you have unprotected sex. However, some sperm cells can reach the already-released egg.                         Postpill is best taken before ovulation.  
I have an app that calculates my menstral cycle. Do I need to take pills when I have no chance of getting pregnant especially before and after my mensturation.,Everything regarding your menstrual cycle shouldn't be based on a mobile app, because the menstrual cycle changes. If you wish to protect yourself from getting pregnant, choose a suitable contraceptive method.
I want to prevent pregnancies for like 10 years,The Lydia IUD is a T or Y-shaped intrauterine device inserted in the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for five to ten years. The Lydia IUD is reversible, and return to fertility is assured. 
I want to prevent pregnancy permanently,There are permanent family planning methods. Kindly visit your healthcare provider for more information.
How can i do  family planning?,There are several family planning methods.  Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short-term methods and long-acting reversible methods. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
I am seeing thick blood after taking the implant what do I do?,What you are experiencing is one of the side effects of using the implant method. However, not all women experience this using the implant, It depends on the individual body system. however, this effect will wear out after a while. 
If i forget to renew the injection, will I get pregnant if i have sex.,Once you stop using the injection, the injection expires, it can take up to a week or two weeks before you get pregnant, but if not renewed, you can get pregnant.
Can postpill help me prevent HIV after unprotected sex?, NO, it can't! Postpill is an emergency contraceptive taken before or after sex. It doesn't prevent HIV or STIs. I will suggest you visit a clinic.
I have been taking Postpill, but now i want to conceive,The postpill is for pregnancy prevention that works within the period of 24 to 72 hours. To get pregnant, do not take any birth control pill.
Is postpill harmful to health if taken more than thrice, No. However, please note that it might alter your menstrual cycle and hormones if taken more than 3 times in a month. 
 What is the most effective pill?,Pills are used based on preference and duration of pregnancy prevention. They are all equally effective if taken as prescribed.
I had sex and i took the Postpill, but its just one but i am still worried i can i take another postpill,No, Postpill is a single-dose emergency contraceptive that should be taken before or after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. Postpill is not to be taken more than 3 times in a month.
This is my first time of using postpill, its just one side and i am worried.,Postpill is a single-dose emergency contraceptive that should be taken before or after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. Postpill is not to be taken more than 3 times in a month.
I have sex regularly with my boyfriend, what are the options apart from postpill,There are other modern contraceptive methods that can be adopted. They include Short-acting methods preventing pregnancy for 1 - 3 months (Daily pills and Injectables) and Long-acting methods (Implants and IUD) which prevent pregnancy for up to 10 years.
I am currently using levofem and i am spoting and not seeing my period. I am on the white pills now.,This could be as a result of skipped pills. However, menses will return in the absence of other underlying medical conditions or pregnancy.
Is there any danger associated to using IUD? My wife has been using it for 8 years,No, IUD is safe and effective until it expires.
I am not seeing my menstruation and I want to take postpill.,Please visit your healthcare provider as postpill is not used to regularize the menstrual cycle. if sexually active kindly use a backup plan(Condom).
Is postpill effective after sex.,Yes, if it is taken within 72 hours after sex. it is advisable you don't take the postpill more than three times in a month. However, if you are sexually active, we have different types of contraceptives you can adopt that works for a longer period.
I want to do the one that you put in the armpit,Implants is a flexible contraceptive rod placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained doctor in order to prevent pregnancy for three years. 

Do I need postpill after having sex with condom,If you had sex with a condom, it is safe, as long as it is not expired, broken, or worn wrongly. There is no need to get the postpill.
How do I ensure that my condom is not broken and am safe for sex during ovulation?,When using a condom, ensure it is properly worn and not expired. Use according to the instructions written on the pack.
I have been noticing some signs in my body body even after flushing my system and taking some test,We counsel on family planning and child spacing. Please visit the hospital to speak with a health care provider.
I do not plan to have any children again, what do I do?,There are permanent family planning methods. Please visit your health care provider.
What is the side effect of the injectable?,The side effect of an injectable method includes weight gain or loss between 2 to 3kg, headache, and nausea. It differs from one individual to another.
What if I forget and dont take injectable after usage period?,You need to take note of the date. Once you stop using the injection, the injection expires,it can take up to like a week or two weeks before you get pregnant, but if not renewed, you can get pregnant.
What if ovulation has occurred and the postpill is taken,If ovulation has already occurred and the postpill is taken, its effectiveness may be reduced and there is the tendency for pregnancy to occur. 
When should I visit the clinic?,It is advisable to call the clinic and book an appointment before going. You can inquire about their working days and schedule your visit accordingly.
How can I locate your office? I have a challenge in my house with my wife,This is a virtual family planning, child spacing and pregnancy prevention counselling platform.
I want to have rest from having children. How long can I rest?,There are several family planning methods.  Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short-term methods and long-acting reversible methods. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
Can I immediately know if I'm pregnant or not?,It may not be possible to know immediately if you're pregnant. You may have to wait for at least 2 weeks before pregnancy can be confirmed.
If you have an interval of one week of sex, can you take the Postpill in between or after the one week of sex?,The postpill should be taken immediately after unprotected sex. However, it is effective for up to 5 days. Postpill should not be used more than 3 times in a month.
Can you clarify how long Postpill remains effective in the body?,Postpill remains effective in the body for 5 days but is most effective in the body within the first 24 hours of usage.
Do I need to take Postpill every day?,No, Postpill is a one-time emergency contraceptive pill. It is not meant to be taken every day, It should only be taken not more than 3 times a month after unprotected sex.
I had unprotected sex yesterday and just took the post-pil this morning. Will it still work?, Yes, the postpill is effective within 24 -72 hours of having unprotected sex. It should still work in your case if you are not ovulating.
 What if nothing happened and I took the Postpill? Will it affect me?,No, but Postpill should only be taken as an emergency contraceptive, taking the Postpill even if nothing happened will not have any negative effects on you but it can alter your menstrual cycle.
What are the limitations of taking the post-pil? How often can it be taken?,The postpill should not be taken more than 3 times in a month. It is not intended to be used as a regular means of pregnancy prevention.
 I took the postpill earlier, and then within 24 hours or so, I still  had unprotected sex. Do I still have to take the postpill?,No, Postpill remains effective in the body for 5 days but is most effective in the body within the first 24 hours of usage.
I want to start family planning with the three-month method. I'm 23 years old and I'm wondering when and where to start,If sexually active, please visit the nearest healthcare provider as soon as you can to adopt a suitable method.
 I want to know how to use the postpill. I got this number from a pack.,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken orally before or after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. 
I bought the postpill for use after having unprotected sex two weeks ago. Can I still use it?,The postpill will not work for the unprotected sex you had two weeks ago. It's meant to be taken immediately after unprotected sex, within 24 to 72 hours.
I actually bought this postpill today. It's my first time using it for prevention, and I don't know much about.,The postpill is a single-dose emergency contraceptive, it is best taken immediately after having unprotected sex. however,  It can still be taken within 72 hours and should not be taken more than 3 times in a month.  There are other family planning methods available, you can call 7790 for free.
 I had unprotected sex on Tuesday and took the postpill last night. I want to know if I'm safe or not.,It's an emergency contraceptive and can be effective within 24 to 72 hours after unprotected sex. it should not be taken more than 3 times a month, if sexually active kindly visit a clinic to adopt a suitable family planning method.
 I have a friend. She had sex yesterday and she didn't use condom. I told her to use postpill. I don't know if it will work., Yes, the postpill will work. postpill should be taken before or after unprotected sex. It can still be effective within 24 to 72 hours after unprotected sex in the absence of ovulation. However, postpill should not be taken more than 3 times a month.
I have a problem. I missed my period, and the pregnancy test is positive. I don't want to carry the baby and need advice. Can I know if this is a family planning chatline?,Yes, it is a family planning, child spacing and pregnancy prevention chatline. Kindly visit a clinic to speak with a healthcare provider for guidance.
 I'm considering using the Abortion Pill in the future. Will it affect my fertility?,You are advised to consult your doctor before making any decision about your reproductive health.
 How do I get the Levofem daily pill?,The Levofem pill is available at pharmacies and stores. However, it's best to consult your doctor before starting any new contraceptive method
I want to ask if the postpill can sometimes disappoint.,Postpill can disappoint if not taken within 24 to 72 hours after unprotected sex, postpill is most effective when taken before ovulation.
I had unprotected sex with my girlfriend four days before her period, and the condom broke. She took the Postpill immediately after. Is there a chance of her getting pregnant?,No, there is no chance of her getting pregnant since she took the Postpill immediately after. It will be effective.
I cannot satisfy a woman, I want a drug for penis enlargement!,I suggest you visit your hospital and speak with a doctor about it.
A friend of mine had sex three days ago and she wants to know if she can use the postpill and if it works.,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken before or after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results.
I want to ask how I can prevent pregnancy. I want to be pregnant after at least two years and a month,To prevent pregnancy for two years, The following methods are advisable.
Daily pills: Oral contraceptive pills taken daily to prevent pregnancy                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Injectables: this can be taken every 2 -3 months.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Implants: flexible contraceptive rod placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained nurse in order to prevent pregnancy for three or Five years. 
IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for 5 to 10 years. It is reversible and can be removed in the second year. Call 7790 for free to get more counseling.
If I go to any pharmacy, can I  get the family planning injections?,You can get the injections at the nearest pharmacy close to you
I just want to ask, is the postpill okay? Like, can it be used within 24 hours and some hours?,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours. For best results, take it as soon as possible after unprotected sex.
What if you have ovulated before using the postpill? Is it still going to work?,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results.  If you are ovulating, it is advisable you use a backup plan (condoms).
I want to know about this family planning. How am I going to go about it? something like 3 years,To prevent pregnancy for three years, The following methods are applicable.
Daily pills: Oral contraceptive pills taken daily to prevent pregnancy                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Injectables: this can be taken every 2 -3 months.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Implants: flexible contraceptive rod placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained nurse in order to prevent pregnancy for three or Five years. 
IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for 5 to 10 years. It is reversible and can be removed in the second year. Call 7790 for free to get more counseling.
where do I get the family planning method?,I can assist you with the nearest clinic. Call 7790 for free.
,No, you do not have to take another postpill. However, please note that Ampiclox and Andrew Liver Salt do not prevent pregnancy. Ensure you take drugs according to the prescription.
I want to know the type of family planning I can do for 3 to 6 months? And where I can get it,You can use the injectable method. It is an injection being taken once every 3 months for pregnancy prevention. 
There is also daily pills contraceptive which is taken daily to prevent pregnancy.
I had unprotected sex last night, I don't know if I am liable to get pregnant,If you are ovulating you are liable to get pregnant. You should consider using postpill, postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex. Ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results.
My friend have itching while using postpill,Postpill does not cause Itching. I would advise you to tell her to go to the clinic. So that she could know the cause of the itching
I am using postpill for the first time I want to know how effective it is, though I have not taken it,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. 
how long does postpill stay in the body,Once you take the postpill immediately after unprotected sex, the postpill stays as long as 5 days in the body. But it shouldn't be used more than 3 times in a month.
I didn't use levofem for 7 days, I just bought a new pack can I start now?,Yes, you can start the new pack immediately as long as pregnancy has been ruled out.
I had unprotected sex last month and I just bought postpill ,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. We advise you to do a pregnancy test.
 I just started taking contraceptive pills recently,  I want to ask you a few questions about the emergency contraceptive and postpill as I am experiencing irregular bleeding,Part of the temporary possible changes associated with Postpill is irregular periods. It alters the menstrual cycle making it come earlier or later depending on the body system. 
My  partner and i want to know more about family planning and how to adopt it, Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short term methods and  long-acting reversible method. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
I don’t know how to go about family planning, I don’t want to give birth anymore, Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short-term methods an long-acting reversible methods. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
My friend bought a drug to abort her pregnancy but she has been bleeding for the past three days,Kindly visit a hospital or clinic to see a medical practitioner for guidance.
I am counselling a lady that was just raped, I don’t know exactly what she should do,Kindly visit a hospital or clinic to see a medical practitioner for guidance.
 I had sex yesterday and the guy cum inside me so I don't want to get pregnant. What can I do?,Take postpill, the postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours. For best results,it should be taken immediately before or after unprotected sex.
I got a postpill from my babe yesterday. Okay. So I want to ask, I'm reading something in the manual and it's not clear to me.,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours. For best results, it should be taken immediately before or after unprotected sex.
I started taking levofem on Sunday at 10pm, I had sex on Monday, do I need to take any contraceptive pill ,Levofem covers you for 24 hours. Please note that if it has exceeded the time frame. Take back-up emergency contraceptive pill. Ensure you take the pill daily as prescribed.
I would like to know how to prevent unwanted pregnancy.,Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short term methods and  long-active reversible method. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
I want to get a progester contraceptive, the family planning for 3 months and What are the side effects,1. Yes progesta is a contraceptive injection taken every 3 months to prevent pregnancy, if you want to continue to prevent pregnancy, you have to go back to the hospital to receive another shot.

2. The side effects are minimal. some women may experience it while others don't, The common side-effects include changes in the menstrual cycle resulting in delayed, prolonged or absent menstruation. For the first week, it may be heavy or prolonged bleeding, the effects will wear out after a while. 
I had unprotected sex on Sunday and I took postpill yesterday, am I safe,Yes, you are. Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. If you are ovulating, it is advisable to use a backup plan (condom). 
I had sex yesterday overnight and I want to take postpill now, will it work?,Yes, it will work. Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. 
I just bought postpill and I want to know more about postpill and its side effects,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results. 
The possible side effects are mild, depending on the body system. it includes headache and nausea, breast tenderness, spotting
 I took postpill yesterday. I want to find out for how long before I take another one. Like how long does it last?,Once you take the postpill immediately after unprotected sex, the postpill stays as long as 5 days in the body. But it shouldn't be used more than 3 times in a month.
 I want to have a talk on how to prevent pregnancy for 1 year.,To prevent pregnancy for one year, The following methods are advisable.
Daily pills: Oral contraceptive pills taken daily to prevent pregnancy                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Injectables: this can be taken every 2 -3 months.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Implants: flexible contraceptive rod placed under the skin of the upper arm by a trained nurse in order to prevent pregnancy for three or Five years.  It can be removed at any time.
IUD is a T or Y-shaped device inserted inside the uterus of a woman to prevent pregnancy for 5 to 10 years. It is reversible and can be removed at any time.  Call 7790 free for further counselling.
I had sex with a lady after her period yesterday and gave her postpill to take that same day will it prevent pregnancy,Yes, it will. Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results.
I bought a desofem and I want to know more about it if it cure PCOS,Desofem is not used for the management of  PCOS. However, Desofem is used for the treatment of menstrual disorders (heavy bleeding, menstrual pain, premenstrual syndrome). Dianofem is an adjunct used for the management of PCOS due to excess androgen in the body.
I had an unsafe sex on Saturday night. It was just this morning I remembered I didn't take any contraceptive, I didn't take any prescriptions. So I don't know if it's okay for me to take this postpill,Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken as soon as possible after unprotected sex, ideally within 24 to 72 hours for best results.
 I am a month pregnant. I want more drugs I can take to abort it,We advise people on family planning, child-spacing, and pregnancy prevention on this chatline.Kindly see a medical practitioner for adequate counselling.
I want to ask you questions concerning family planning and pregnancy prevention. But for now, I'm not planning to have children again. I just want to take care of my health for 2 years, Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short term methods and  long-acting reversible method. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
I bought a pill yesterday it has expired and I bought another today, can I use it?,Yes, provided the new pill has not expired.
I took postpill after sex last month but I am now pregnant after going for a test, Postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken within 24 to 72 hours of unprotected sex immediately before or after sex but before ovulation for the best result.
can levofem abort,Levofem does not abort. It is an oral daily contraceptive for pregnancy prevention.
I need to find out more about contraceptive. . I want to know what methods would be good for me
,Family planning is based on choice and duration, there are short-term methods and long-acting reversible methods. Dial 7790 for free for more information.
Is it possible that after using the postpill accurately, someone can still get pregnant? ,Yes, if you are ovulating.
Is it necessary for me to use postpill when I'm already having sex?,Postpill can be taken before or immediately after sex. Postpill can stay in the body for 5 days, but it is most effective within the first 24 hours.
I took postpill 5pm yesterday. And you had another sex 12pm today. Can I take another one now,No, you don't need to take another one. Postpill can stay in the body for 5 days, but it is most effective within the first 24 hours. 
My wife did implant for more than 2years she is yet to see her period,The experience is one of the side effects of the implant because it's a hormonal type of contraceptive. Kindly go to the clinic where you got the implant to complain to the healthcare provider.
I want to have a clarification on Levofem, Levofem is a regular daily contraceptive pill taken at about the same time of the day to prevent pregnancy. A pack contains 28 tablets for one month. It is advisable not to miss your pill and should be taken every day with or without having sex.
I want to know more about postpill, Is it a drug that you can take daily?
,No, postpill is an emergency contraceptive that should be taken before or after unprotected sex, it should be taken within 24 to 72 hours of unprotected sex for the best result. however, postpill should not be taken more than 3 times in a month.
Does the implant have any side effect,Yes, It has some side effects but not even everyone will experience these side effects. For more information call 7790 for free.